.TH IRCD 8 "SporksIRCD 11 January 2011
.SH NAME
ircd \- The Internet Relay Chat Program Server 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.IP \fBircd\fP
[-configfile filename] [-logfile filename] [-pidfile filename] [-conftest]
[-foreground] [-version]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fIircd\fP is the server (daemon) program for the Internet Relay Chat
Program.  The \fIircd\fP is a server in that its function is to "serve"
the client program \fIirc(1)\fP with messages and commands.  All commands
and user messages are passed directly to the \fIircd\fP for processing
and relaying to other ircd sites.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-configfile filename
Specifies the ircd.conf file to be used for this ircdaemon. The option
is used to override the default ircd.conf given at compile time.
.TP
.B \-logfile filename
Specifies an alternative logfile to be used than that specified in config.h
.TP
.B \-pidfile filename
Specifies the ircd.pid used. The option is used to override the default
ircd.pid given at compile time.
.TP
.B \-conftest
Makes \fIircd\fP check the ircd.conf for errors
.TP
.B \-foreground
Makes \fIircd\fP run in the foreground
.TP
.B \-version
Makes \fIircd\fP print its version, and exit.
.SH USAGE
If you plan to connect your \fIircd\fP server to an existing IRC network,
you will need to alter your local IRC configuration file (typically named
"ircd.conf") so that it will accept and make connections to other \fIircd\fP
servers.  This file contains the hostnames, network addresses, and passwords
for connections to other ircds around the world.  Because description of the
actual file format of the "ircd.conf" file is beyond the scope of this
document, please refer to the reference.conf file in the IRC distribution's
documentation directory.
.LP
.SH BOOTING THE SERVER
The \fIircd\fP server can be started as part of the boot procedure (using the
@reboot directive of \fIcrond(8)\fP or another means) or just by running it
manually. Keep in mind that if it is \fBnot\fP part of your machine's boot-up
procedure then you will have to manually start the \fIircd\fP server each time
your machine is rebooted.  This means if your machine is prone to crashing or
going for for repairs a lot it would make sense to start the \fIircd\fP server
as part of your bootup procedure, though it may be better not to run \fIircd\fP
on that machine (or your users will likely be annoyed by frequent outages and
disconnects).
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
tolsun% \fBbin/ircd\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
Runs \fIircd\fP as a daemon and starts up the server for use.
.LP
.RS
.nf
leguin% \fBbin/ircd -foreground\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
Runs ircd in the foreground (useful for debugging).
.RS
.nf
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 1988,1989 University of Oulu, Computing Center, Finland,
.LP
(c) 1988,1989 Department of Information Processing Science,
University of Oulu, Finland
.LP
(c) 1988,1989,1990,1991 Jarkko Oikarinen
.LP
(c) 1997,1998,1999,2000,2001 The IRCD-Hybrid project.
.LP
(c) 2001-2006 The IRCD-Ratbox project.
.LP
(c) 2006-2010 The Charybids project.
.LP
(c) 2010 The ShadowIRCd project.
.LP
(c) 2010-2011 The SporksIRCD project.
.LP
For full COPYRIGHT see LICENSE file with IRC package.
.LP
.RE
.SH FILES
 "ircd.conf"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ircd.conf(5)
.SH BUGS
None... ;-) if somebody finds one, please report it.
.SH AUTHOR
irc2.8 and earlier: Jarkko Oikarinen, currently jto@tolsun.oulu.fi.
.LP
ircd-hybrid-7: IRCD-Hybrid Project, ircd-hybrid@the-project.org.
.LP
ircd-ratbox-3: IRCD-Ratbox Project, ircd-ratbox@the-project.org.
.LP
charybdis-3.2: Charybdis Project
.LP
ShadowIRCd-6: ShadowIRCd Project
.LP
SporksIRCD: SporksIRCd Project
.LP
manual page written by Jeff Trim, jtrim@orion.cair.du.edu,
later modified by jto@tolsun.oulu.fi.
.LP
modified for ircd-hybrid-7 by Edward Brocklesby, ejb@klamath.uucp.leguin.org.uk.
.LP
updated by W. Campbell, wcampbel@botbay.net
.LP
updated for SporksIRCD by Elizabeth J. Myers, elizabeth@sporksirc.net.
